Date: Thu, 31 Oct 91 00:04:12 EET
X-Class: Slow
To: netters, another-netters
Sender: L-usenet@kiae.su
From: Dumb_Tester@very-long-domain.about.dialnet.msk.su (Grr-Mew)
Subject: [NEWS] Notes from ISO/CCITT messaging standards meeting October 91
Message-ID: <875644*JPALME@SKHB.dafa.se>
Approved: usenet@ics.uci.edu
X400-Received: by /PRMD=QZ/ADMD=TEDE/C=SE/;
X400-Received: by /PRMD=QZ/ADMD=TEDE/C=SE/; Relayed; 30 Oct 91 12:13:08+0100

Notes from the meeting with the joint ISO/CCITT meeting
on messaging standards, the Hague, October 1991.
=======================================================

The main object of this meeting was to finally polish
the 1992 version of the X.400 standard. Personally I
participated in the subgroup on group communication
standards, a group which did not plan to present any
results for the 1992 version of X.400. I will report in
separate messages from the discussions in the group
communication group.

The 1992 version of the standard may be the first where
the CCITT and ISO version of the standard are offprints
of exactly the same text. CCITT will also for the first
time accept input of standards text for printing in
machine-readable format, which will avoid a lot of
typographical errors.

Work has been done to reduce the number of differences
between the ISO and the CCITT version of the standard.
For example, instead of the word "standard" in the ISO
version and the word "recommendation" in the CCITT
version, the term "specification" will be used in both
versions. Those few cases where CCITT and ISO still
differ may be included in both standards and marked in
the text to indicate both alternative forms.

CCITT has included some features, for example the
general text body part, which previously was only
present in the ISO version of the standard.

Important issues in this meeting were:

Final resolution of outstanding defect reports on the
old standard.

Example of defects: There is a sequence of parameter-
attributes in IPM for extended body parts, which
corresponds to data-values. However, if a body part is
missing, the correspondence between the sequences is not
clear. Solution: Insert a NULL value in the parameter
sequence so that the correspondence can still be kept.

Final solution of outstanding problems on the
interworking between telefacsimile and X.400. In
particular, there are problems about notifications for
such interworking which have been clarified.

Accounting management for MHS.

A new annex E to F.400 describing how to handle multi-
national PRMD-s.

A whole new X.400 part on voice messaging.

A new voice body part. (Not the same as voice messaging,
a voice body part is used together with other types of
bodies in a multi-media message.)

An autosubmitted indication in P2 to indicate that a
message has been submitted automatically by a machine or
program without human intervention.

A notification-extension facility in IPM.

On the controversial issue of whether to use semicolon
(;) or slash (/) as a separator between fields in the
business-card format of OR-adresses, no agreement could
be reached. A new PDAM vote will be sent to ISO member
bodies. They will then be allowed to choose between
three alternatives: Only semicolon, only slash or to
allow both. For each of these three alternatives, they
will be allowed to vote "yes", "do not like but can
accept" and "no".

On the matter of PICS for MOTIS/X.400, the present PICS
are partly of bad quality, and no one is willing to do
the work of improving them. Because of this, maybe no
PICS will be published at all, at least not by ISO.

